Newsletters: add 113 (2020-09-02) (#456)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2020-09-02-newsletter.md

  look like when it can take advantage of the benefits of [schnorr
  signatures][topic schnorr signatures].

- **Default signet discussion:** Michael Folkson [posted][default signet post] to the
  Bitcoin-Dev mailing list a question about whether there should be a
  default [signet][topic signet] similar to Bitcoin's existing default testnet.
  Signets are test networks where valid blocks must be
  signed by one or more trusted keys; this allows them to be more
  predictable for testing than fully decentralized test networks that
  are often subject to vandalism.  [BIP325][] describes the signet
  protocol, which anyone can use to create their own signet, but there
  is a [desire][bitcoin core default signet] to include a default signet into
  Bitcoin Core (and possibly other software) that
  users will be able to enable with a single configuration option.
  Folkson's first question is whether anyone has any objection to this.

    If there is to be a default signet, Folkson posted several
    additional questions about how it should be administered.  For
    example, who should control its signing keys?  How many keys should

>     there be?  Under what circumstaces should the default signet be

Reviewer: s/circumstaces/circumstances

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #113'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2020/09/02/
name: 2020-09-02-newsletter
slug: 2020-09-02-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter describes a proposed change to the way LN commitment
transactions are constructed, summarizes discussion of a default signet, and
links to a proposal for standardizing temporarily trusted LN channels. Also
included are our regular sections with recently transcribed talks and
conversations and notable changes to popular Bitcoin infrastructure projects.

## Action items

*None this week.*

## News

> - **Witness asymetric payment channels:** Lloyd Fournier [posted][witness asymmetric payment channels] to

Reviewer 2: asymmetric

  method with parameters still to be determined. Community feedback on activation
  proposals continues to be collected. ([transcript][activation transcript],
  [video][activation video])

- **Signet**: Kalle Alm and AJ Towns participated in a discussion on
  [Signet][topic signet].  The design decisions of Signet were explored as well
  as the mechanics of how testnet and regtest work. For more details see the
  [_Default signet discussion_ news item](#default-signet-discussion).
  ([transcript][signet transcript], [video][signet video])

- **Bitcoin Core GUI meeting**: Anonymized participants including designers and
  developers met to discuss the Bitcoin Core graphical user interface, its
  current state, how it could be improved or revamped and the constraints that
  any possible revamp would be subject to. For example, one change that has been
  discussed in the past is moving from Qt Widgets to the Qt QML framework which
  is more flexible and easily customized. ([transcript][bitcoin core gui
  transcript]).

- **Sydney meetup discussion** Ruben Somsen and Rusty Russell participated in a
  discussion on statechains, upgrading LN channels and [lnprototest][]. Somsen

>   outlined how statechains (see [Newsletter #100][news100 statechains]) could

Reviewer: This is actually Newsletter 91 not Newsletter 100. Apologies, this was my error. https://bitcoinops.org/en/newsletters/2020/04/01/#implementing-statechains-without-schnorr-or-eltoo

Reviewer: Two replacements of s/100/91

  case of DLCs (see [Newsletter #81][news81 dlc]) swap out a portion of your
  position without closing the channel. With various possible Lightning channel
  upgrades on the horizon it was speculated which could use dynamic commitments
  (see [Newsletter #108][news108 dynamic commitments]) and which would require
  [splicing][topic splicing]. Finally, Russell explained how the Lightning
  protocol test suite lnprototest could be used to find bugs in existing
  implementations and assist with ensuring interoperability across
  implementations when building out new features.  ([transcript][sydney
  transcript]).

## Notable code and documentation changes

*Notable changes this week in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo],
[C-Lightning][c-lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LND][lnd repo],
[Rust-Lightning][rust-lightning repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo],
[Hardware Wallet Interface (HWI)][hwi], [Bitcoin Improvement Proposals
(BIPs)][bips repo], and [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo].*

- [Bitcoin Core #19797][] Remove old check for 3-byte shifted IP addresses from pre-0.2.9 nodes FIXME:dongcarl

- [Bitcoin Core #19731][] extends the `getpeerinfo` RPC results with two new

>   fields: `last_block` FIXME:asked question of jonatack

Reviewer 2: I'll write and push the PR 19731 section, then review the rest.

Reviewer 3: I've just pushed a summary of 19731!

- **Default signet discussion:** Michael Folkson [posted][default signet post] to the
  Bitcoin-Dev mailing list a question about whether there should be a
  default [signet][topic signet] similar to Bitcoin's existing default testnet.
  Signets are test networks where valid blocks must be
  signed by one or more trusted keys; this allows them to be more
  predictable for testing than fully decentralized test networks that
  are often subject to vandalism.  [BIP325][] describes the signet
  protocol, which anyone can use to create their own signet, but there
  is a [desire][bitcoin core default signet] to include a default signet into
  Bitcoin Core (and possibly other software) that
  users will be able to enable with a single configuration option.
  Folkson's first question is whether anyone has any objection to this.

    If there is to be a default signet, Folkson posted several
    additional questions about how it should be administered.  For
    example, who should control its signing keys?  How many keys should
    there be?  Under what circumstaces should the default signet be
    reset?  When should proposed consensus changes to mainnet Bitcoin be

>     implemented by signet miners (trusted signers)?

Reviewer: Signet miners aren't always equivalent to the trusted signers e.g. I might not be a trusted signer but I could still mine a block assuming I got a signature from a trusted signer. 

So I would say "signet miners and trusted signers" here.

[default signet post]: https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2020-August/018145.html
[temporarily trusted channels]: https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/lightning-dev/2020-August/002780.html
[bitcoin core default signet]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/19787#issuecomment-679836225
[news103 fee ransom]: http://localhost:4000/en/newsletters/2020/06/24/#ln-fee-ransom-attack
[nixbitcoin transcript]: https://diyhpl.us/wiki/transcripts/stephan-livera-podcast/2020-07-26-nix-bitcoin/
[nixbitcoin audio]: https://stephanlivera.com/episode/195/
[news107 taproot activation]: /en/newsletters/2020/07/22/#taproot-activation-discussions
[activation transcript]: https://diyhpl.us/wiki/transcripts/bitcoin-magazine/2020-08-03-eric-lombrozo-luke-dashjr-taproot-activation/
[activation video]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yQZb0RDyFCQ
[signet transcript]: https://diyhpl.us/wiki/transcripts/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-08-19-socratic-seminar-signet/
[signet video]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b0AiucAuX3E
[bitcoin core gui transcript]: https://diyhpl.us/wiki/transcripts/bitcoin-design/2020-08-20-bitcoin-core-gui/

> [news100 statechains]: /en/newsletters/2020/04/01/#implementing-statechains-without-schnorr-or-eltoo

Reviewer: s/news100/news91

## Action items

*None this week.*

## News

- **Witness asymetric payment channels:** Lloyd Fournier [posted][witness asymmetric payment channels] to
  the Lightning-Dev mailing list this week with a request for feedback
  on a proposed change to the way LN commitment transactions are
  created.  Currently, in-channel payments are made by constructing two
  transactions that conflict with each other, meaning Bitcoin's
  consensus rules will only allow one of the transactions to be included
  in the block chain.  Each of these transactions includes the same two
  outputs with the same two amounts---one paying Alice and one paying
  Bob---but with slightly different scripts.

  The script for Alice allows her to unilaterally close the channel, but
  it gives Bob a chance to spend her funds if he knows a secret that
  Alice previously created.  Similarly, if Bob unilaterally closes the
  channel, Alice gets a chance to spend his funds using a secret he
  created.  This ability to give away a secret in order to allow your
  counterparty to spend your money makes it possible to effective
  *revoke* old channel states so that the latest unrevoked channel state

>   can be safely published onchain when it comes time to close the

Reviewer 4: s/onchain/on chain

  adaptor][topic adaptor signatures] for his half of the 2-of-2 multisig spend in the commitement
  transaction; the adaptor can only be transformed into Bob's signature
  if that signature will reveal one of Alice's private keys to Bob.  The
  other private key Alice created is the revocation private key, which
  she'll give to Bob if she wants to revoke this channel state in favor
  of a later state.  Similarly, Bob generates his own keys and receives
  a signature adaptor from Alice.

  In this way, even though the commitment transaction is the same for
  both parties, there will be a difference in the signatures (called
  *witnesses*) each of them uses to unilaterally close the channel.
  The difference in the signatures will give the party who didn't close
  the channel a chance to create and broadcast a penalty transaction if
  the channel was closed in an old state.  Otherwise, if the channel was
  closed in its latest state, both parties get their money, just like in
  current LN.

  The proposal also suggests using basically the same scheme to
  transition from Hash Time Lock Contracts (HTLCs) to Point Time Lock

>   Contracts (PTLCs), which is already a goal several LN contributors

Reviewer 4: Could link PTLCs to https://bitcoinops.org/en/newsletters/2020/04/08/#work-on-ptlcs-for-ln-using-simplified-ecdsa-adaptor-signatures for more info

Author: Nice!  I forgot we had a decent description of PTLCs.

  have voiced support for in the past.

  Advantages of this approach are that it might require less private
  data storage (though this is [debated][zmn reply]), it makes unilateral closes

>   a bit smaller onchain, and it describes a path to using PTLCs which

Author: I'll s/which/that/ to make it clearer that the end of that sentence is a nonrestrictive phrase, so no comma needed.

    different implementations vary in some aspects, such as what
    `short_channel_id` to use until the deposit transaction confirms
    (this value usually identifies the location of the deposit
    transaction in the block chain, which doesn't apply to unconfirmed
    transactions).

    Participants in the mailing list discussion seemed supportive of the
    proposal.

## Recently transcribed talks and conversations

*[Bitcoin Transcripts][] is the home for transcripts of technical
Bitcoin presentations and discussions. In this monthly feature, we
highlight a selection of the transcripts from the previous month.*

- **nix-bitcoin**: nixbitcoindev appeared on the Stephan Livera Podcast to
  discuss nix-bitcoin.  nix-bitcoin is an experimental but promising project
  that aims to improve the security of installing Bitcoin and Lightning nodes. It
  uses the functional Linux distribution NixOS where upgrading is equivalent to
  installing from scratch due to atomicity. Through minimalism, reproducibility,
  compartmentalization and defense in depth nix-bitcoin aims to reduce the attack
  surface of a Bitcoin and Lightning software stack with programs unaware of

>   other running processes unless they need to be. ([transcript][nixbitcoin

Reviewer: Through minimalism, reproducibility, compartmentalization and defense in depth, nix-bitcoin aims to reduce the attack surface of a Bitcoin and Lightning software stack *such that* programs *are* unaware of other running processes unless they need to be.

>   other running processes unless they need to be. ([transcript][nixbitcoin

Reviewer: Yeah I think delete "with programs unaware of other running processes unless they need to be."

>   other running processes unless they need to be. ([transcript][nixbitcoin

Author: I'm happy to delete it if you want, but for now I'll just change it to an appositive phrase as it is a nice ending to that bullet.

>   other running processes unless they need to be. ([transcript][nixbitcoin

Reviewer 2: With the dash it's better--thanks!

>   other running processes unless they need to be. ([transcript][nixbitcoin

Reviewer: --agreed

  transcript], [audio][nixbitcoin audio])

- **Taproot activation**: Eric Lombrozo, Luke Dashjr and Aaron van Wirdum
  discussed the alternative [Taproot][topic taproot] activation proposals (see
  [Newsletter #107][news107 taproot activation]) and gave their opinions in a
  personal capacity on what lessons, if any, could be derived from activating the

>   SegWit soft fork.  Lombrozo and Dashjr both believe that the Taproot activation

Reviewer 2: I think its's /SegWit/segwit/ per style guide

Reviewer 4: Was going to suggest similar. Likewise with taproot and signet.

  process should not be drawn out and that all opposition, criticism or review of

>   the proposed code changes should be flushed out prior to starting any possible

Reviewer 2: could "flushed out" be replaced with something clearer? it seems ambiguous or could be interpreted negatively

Reviewer: Hmm I see what you mean. "should be obtained prior to"?

Reviewer 2: "have rough consensus"? not sure what they meant

Reviewer: The point is rather than choosing a long multiphase activation process giving miners lots of opportunity to signal opposition or demand changes/additional review you front load all those discussions before you start any activation process. The activation process should only begin once everyone (including the miners) are onboard. I thought it was a convincing argument but maybe I'm not doing it justice here.

Reviewer: From the transcript:

"If it doesn’t feel it is decisive and there isn’t a decision that has been made then people are going to be totally confused. It is cause a lot of uncertainty. I think that this is something where we either need to be very aggressive about it and get everyone onboard and be decisive and say “Yes this is going to happen” or it is not worth doing at all. I don’t like this idea of seeing what happens in 6 months or whatever. We either decide right away that yes we are going to do it or no."

"It kind of invites controversy."

Reviewer 2: > "With this kind of stuff I think people are looking for decisiveness and looking for resolution.

This is definitely what I hear from people.

Maybe "should be decided and resolved prior to..."  :D

>   activation process. As a result they support a single phase BIP 8 activation

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  activation process. As a result, they support a single phase BIP 8 activation
```

Reviewer 2: git grepping the Optech repo, s/BIP 8/BIP8/ would be the usual style

  method with parameters still to be determined. Community feedback on activation
  proposals continues to be collected. ([transcript][activation transcript],
  [video][activation video])

- **Signet**: Kalle Alm and AJ Towns participated in a discussion on

>   [Signet][topic signet].  The design decisions of Signet were explored as well

Reviewer 2: s/Signet/signet/ (in 2 places in this sentence)

>   as the mechanics of how testnet and regtest work. For more details see the

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  as the mechanics of how testnet and regtest work. For more details, see the
```

  [_Default signet discussion_ news item](#default-signet-discussion).
  ([transcript][signet transcript], [video][signet video])

> - **Bitcoin Core GUI meeting**: Anonymized participants including designers and
>   developers met to discuss the Bitcoin Core graphical user interface, its

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Bitcoin Core GUI meeting**: Anonymized participants, including designers and
  developers, met to discuss the Bitcoin Core graphical user interface, its
```

>   current state, how it could be improved or revamped and the constraints that

Reviewer 5: "revamp" repeated in the sentence
```suggestion
  current state, how it could be improved and the constraints that
```

Reviewer: Agree with the suggested change.

  any possible revamp would be subject to. For example, one change that has been
  discussed in the past is moving from Qt Widgets to the Qt QML framework which
  is more flexible and easily customized. ([transcript][bitcoin core gui
  transcript]).

- **Sydney meetup discussion** Ruben Somsen and Rusty Russell participated in a
  discussion on statechains, upgrading LN channels and [lnprototest][]. Somsen
  outlined how statechains (see [Newsletter #100][news100 statechains]) could
  potentially be used to swap out your Lightning channel counterparty or in the
  case of DLCs (see [Newsletter #81][news81 dlc]) swap out a portion of your
  position without closing the channel. With various possible Lightning channel

>   upgrades on the horizon it was speculated which could use dynamic commitments

Reviewer 4: s/horizon/horizon,

  (see [Newsletter #108][news108 dynamic commitments]) and which would require

>   [splicing][topic splicing]. Finally, Russell explained how the Lightning

Reviewer 5: This sentence is unclear. Not sure what "which" refers to.

Reviewer: Some Lightning channel upgrades will be able to be upgraded using dynamic commitments and some won't, these will need splicing/onchain transactions. I don't know how to make this clearer. Maybe "which upgrades" rather than "which"?

  protocol test suite lnprototest could be used to find bugs in existing
  implementations and assist with ensuring interoperability across
  implementations when building out new features.  ([transcript][sydney
  transcript]).

## Notable code and documentation changes

*Notable changes this week in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo],
[C-Lightning][c-lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LND][lnd repo],
[Rust-Lightning][rust-lightning repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo],
[Hardware Wallet Interface (HWI)][hwi], [Bitcoin Improvement Proposals
(BIPs)][bips repo], and [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo].*

- [Bitcoin Core #19797][] Remove old check for 3-byte shifted IP addresses from pre-0.2.9 nodes FIXME:dongcarl

> - [Bitcoin Core #19731][] extends the `getpeerinfo` RPC results with two new

Reviewer 2: perhaps s/RPC results/RPC output/

>   fields: `last_block` and `last_transaction`. `last_block` is the time that
>   the node most recently received a block from the peer which it had not seen
>   before and which passed preliminary validity checks. `last_transaction` is the
>   time tht the node most recently received a transaction from the peer that it

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  fields: `last_block` and `last_transaction`. `last_block` is the timestamp
  of the peer's most recently received block, which had not seen
  before and which passed preliminary validity checks. `last_transaction` is the
  timestamp of when the node most recently received a transaction from the peer that it
```

Author: I think the original is clearer.  In the revised version, it sounds like the timestamp is something the peer reports to the node, but I'm almost certain it's a value the node recorded itself (i.e. it's trustless).  Additionally, "timestamp of [...] block" risks confusion with two other block timestamps we return in the `getblock` RPC, the block's header nTime and its calculated median time past.

>   time tht the node most recently received a transaction from the peer that it

Reviewer 2: s/time tht the node/time that the node/

>   accepted to its mempool. Both of these metrics are used in our peer

Reviewer 4: "our" sounds off here. Perhaps remove it. s/are used in our peer/are used in peer

>   disconnection logic, so it's useful for node operators to be able to access

Reviewer 2: perhaps s/peer disconnection/inbound peer eviction/

  them.

- [LND #4527][] adds a new `default-remote-max-htlcs` configuration
  option that allows the user to specify the default maximum number of
  unresolved HTLCs (payments) allowed in a channel.  This can minimize

>   the amount onchain fees the user will need to pay if they need to

Reviewer 2: s/amount/amount of/

maybe: s/need to pay if they need/have to pay if they need/

  unilaterally close their channel, such as because of a fee ransom attack
  (see [Newsletter #103][news103 fee ransom]).

> - [BIPs #982][] adds changes to the [BIP340][] schnorr signatures (which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [BIPs #982][] adds changes to [BIP340][] schnorr signatures (which
```

  also affect [BIP341][] taproot).  BIP340 was previously

>   [changed][pk evenness update] to use two different tiebreakers for

Reviewer 4: I thought our coverage of this proposed change was informative, if it is possible to work a link in for that: https://bitcoinops.org/en/newsletters/2020/08/19/#proposed-uniform-tiebreaker-in-schnorr-signatures

  conveying the Y coordinate of points: squaredness for the R point
  inside signatures and evenness for the public keys.  As

>   [described on the mailing list][r point evenness update], this update,

Reviewer 2: s/update, changes/update changes/

  current LN.

  The proposal also suggests using basically the same scheme to
  transition from Hash Time Lock Contracts (HTLCs) to Point Time Lock
  Contracts (PTLCs), which is already a goal several LN contributors
  have voiced support for in the past.

  Advantages of this approach are that it might require less private
  data storage (though this is [debated][zmn reply]), it makes unilateral closes
  a bit smaller onchain, and it describes a path to using PTLCs which
  will provide LN users with additional privacy against spying routing
  nodes as well as bring the protocol a little closer to what it may
  look like when it can take advantage of the benefits of [schnorr
  signatures][topic schnorr signatures].

- **Default signet discussion:** Michael Folkson [posted][default signet post] to the
  Bitcoin-Dev mailing list a question about whether there should be a
  default [signet][topic signet] similar to Bitcoin's existing default testnet.
  Signets are test networks where valid blocks must be
  signed by one or more trusted keys; this allows them to be more
  predictable for testing than fully decentralized test networks that

>   are often subject to vandalism.  [BIP325][] describes the signet

Reviewer: Need to add a link to BIP325 here https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0325.mediawiki

Author: For BIPs 1 to 400, we automatically generate all the links anytime the file contains `{% include references.md %}`.  See this function in https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io/master/_includes/references.md

```text
{% for i in (1..400) %}
{% assign i_padded = "0000" | append: i | slice: -4, 4 %}
[BIP{{i}}]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-{{i_padded}}.mediawiki
{% endfor %}
```

  potentially be used to swap out your Lightning channel counterparty or in the
  case of DLCs (see [Newsletter #81][news81 dlc]) swap out a portion of your
  position without closing the channel. With various possible Lightning channel
  upgrades on the horizon it was speculated which could use dynamic commitments
  (see [Newsletter #108][news108 dynamic commitments]) and which would require
  [splicing][topic splicing]. Finally, Russell explained how the Lightning
  protocol test suite lnprototest could be used to find bugs in existing
  implementations and assist with ensuring interoperability across
  implementations when building out new features.  ([transcript][sydney
  transcript]).

## Notable code and documentation changes

*Notable changes this week in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo],
[C-Lightning][c-lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LND][lnd repo],
[Rust-Lightning][rust-lightning repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo],
[Hardware Wallet Interface (HWI)][hwi], [Bitcoin Improvement Proposals
(BIPs)][bips repo], and [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo].*

- [Bitcoin Core #19797][] removes an obsolete validity check for IPv6 addresses

>   inadvertantly constructed due to a bug in Bitcoin Core v0.2.8 and earlier.

Reviewer 2: s/inadvertantly/inadvertently/

it seems ambiguously worded WRT whether the *addresses* were inadvertently constructed, or the *validity check* was

Reviewer 6: I wonder if I can simplify this to something like:
"removes an obsolete validity check for buggily constructed IPv6 addresses in..."

But "buggily constructed" isn't a phrase... "bogusly constructed"? HALP

>   This change should have no impact on the current P2P network as affected

Reviewer 2: s/network as/network, as/

>   versions are unable to communicate with current software as a result of the

Reviewer 2: s/as a result of/due to/ (to avoid repeated "as" in the same sentence)

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #113'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2020/09/02/
name: 2020-09-02-newsletter
slug: 2020-09-02-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter describes a proposed change to the way LN commitment
transactions are constructed, summarizes discussion of a default signet, and
links to a proposal for standardizing temporarily trusted LN channels. Also
included are our regular sections with recently transcribed talks and
conversations and notable changes to popular Bitcoin infrastructure projects.

## Action items

*None this week.*

## News

> - **Witness asymmetric payment channels:** Lloyd Fournier [posted][witness asymmetric payment channels] to

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- foo bar fuzz
```

  your money makes it possible to effectively *revoke* that old channel
  state so that you're strongly incentivized to publish the latest
  unrevoked channel state onchain when it comes time to close the
  channel.

  What Fournier proposed this week was only creating a single commitment
  transaction that would be shared between
  Alice and Bob.  When creating the transaction, Alice creates two
  private keys she'll need to spend her output and gives Bob the
  corresponding public keys.  Bob then gives Alice a [signature
  adaptor][topic adaptor signatures] for his half of the 2-of-2 multisig spend in the commitment
  transaction; the adaptor can only be transformed into Bob's signature
  if that signature will reveal one of Alice's private keys to Bob.  The
  other private key Alice created is the revocation private key, which
  she'll give to Bob if she wants to revoke this channel state in favor
  of a later state.  Similarly, Bob generates his own keys and receives
  a signature adaptor from Alice.

  In this way, even though the commitment transaction is the same for
  both parties, there will be a difference in the signatures (called

>   *witnesses*) each of them uses to unilaterally close the channel.

Reviewer 2: On this point, I found this sentence by Fournier interesting:

    The guiding principle is to keep commitment transactions symmetric but to use
    the asymmetric knowledge of the parties to simulate the way lightning works
    right now.

  The difference in the signatures will give the party who didn't close
  the channel a chance to create and broadcast a penalty transaction if
  the channel was closed in an old state.  Otherwise, if the channel was
  closed in its latest state, both parties get their money, just like in
  the current LN.

  The proposal also suggests using basically the same scheme to
  transition from Hash Time Lock Contracts (HTLCs) to Point Time Lock
  Contracts ([PTLCs][news92 ptlcs]), which is already a goal several LN contributors
  have voiced support for in the past.

  Advantages of this approach are that it might require less private
  data storage (though this is [debated][zmn reply]), it makes unilateral closes
  a bit smaller onchain, and it describes a path to using PTLCs that
  will provide LN users with additional privacy against routing

>   node surveilance as well as bring the protocol a little closer to what it may

Reviewer 2: surveillance

  look like when it can take advantage of the benefits of [schnorr
  signatures][topic schnorr signatures].

- **Default signet discussion:** Michael Folkson [posted][default signet post] to the
  Bitcoin-Dev mailing list a question about whether there should be a
  default [signet][topic signet] similar to Bitcoin's existing default testnet.
  Signets are test networks where valid blocks must be
  signed by one or more trusted keys; this allows them to be more
  predictable for testing than fully decentralized test networks that
  are often subject to vandalism.  [BIP325][] describes the signet
  protocol, which anyone can use to create their own signet, but there
  is a [desire][bitcoin core default signet] to include a default signet into
  Bitcoin Core (and possibly other software) that
  users will be able to enable with a single configuration option.

>   Folkson's first question is whether anyone has any objection to this.

Reviewer 2: ISTM s/is/was/ here in keeping with the tense used in this paragraph and the next one

    If there is to be a default signet, Folkson posted several
    additional questions about how it should be administered.  For
    example, who should control its signing keys?  How many keys should
    there be?  Under what circumstances should the default signet be
    reset?  When should proposed consensus changes to mainnet Bitcoin be

>     implemented by the trusted signet miners/signers?

Reviewer 7: is `miners` correct / necessary here?

Author: I think "signers" by itself might be ambiguous, as the way we usually use that term only applies to the people who sign transactions.

Reviewer: "by the trusted signet block signers and miners"

Miners aren't trusted, only the block signers

Reviewer: If the miners don't upgrade when the signet block signers do they risk being forked off the Signet chain. So for the sake of the network it isn't necessary that miners upgrade but they will need to follow the block signers in upgrading to continue mining blocks on the Signet chain.

Reviewer 7: in line 80-81 is explained that there are block signers in signet, no miners.
I think the user will have this still in mind while reading the end of this paragraph.

fwiw, I got confused with the mentioning of miners...

Reviewer 7: ACK to `by the trusted signet block signers.`

Reviewer: If the miners are following the block signers then yeah perhaps get rid of "miners" from this sentence.

"by the trusted signet block signers"

    Anyone interested in helping answer these questions is encouraged to
    respond.

- **Standardizing temporarily trusted LN channels:** Roei Erez
  [posted][temporarily trusted channels] to the Lightning-Dev mailing list a proposal to standardize
  the way LN implementations deal with new channels when the
  participants are willing to trust an unconfirmed deposit transaction.
  For example, Alice pays Bob's established business to fund a

>   channel to her.  In that case, Alice may be willing to trust Bob to not

Reviewer 7: Is this describing `turbo channels`? If yes, should the term be referenced?

Author: I think that's the name BitRefill uses, but I don't think anyone else providing that service uses that term.

Reviewer 7: afaik, @kixunil published the concept under this name...?

Reviewer 8: I published the concept without any name. Then @btcontract [suggested] calling it "turbo"(https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lightning-rfc/issues/565#issuecomment-460601680) and Bitrefill decided to use that term in their campaigns which popularized the idea and the name. Since then I've heard and used "Turbo" in several cases outside Bitrefill-specific services. The [suggested technical term](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lightning-rfc/issues/565#issuecomment-462119239) is `zeroconf_spendable_push`, which Anton agreed on.

I'm not aware of any other *popular* name for this feature, so I'd like to see these terms being used to avoid confusion. I'd recommend at least putting "(AKA Turbo)" somewhere in the text to make it more clear.

  double spend his deposit transaction.  Bob can also safely accept
  in-channel payments from Alice because he gets all his money back
  anyway if the deposit transaction doesn't confirm.

    Erez noted that several LN implementations already allow users to

>     opt-in to trusting certain unconfirmed channels but that the

Reviewer 2: s/opt-in/opt in/ (the verb form is not hyphenated)

    different implementations vary in some aspects, such as what
    `short_channel_id` to use until the deposit transaction confirms
    (this value usually identifies the location of the deposit
    transaction in the block chain, which doesn't apply to unconfirmed
    transactions).

    Participants in the mailing list discussion seemed supportive of the
    proposal.

## Recently transcribed talks and conversations

*[Bitcoin Transcripts][] is the home for transcripts of technical
Bitcoin presentations and discussions. In this monthly feature, we
highlight a selection of the transcripts from the previous month.*

- **nix-bitcoin**: nixbitcoindev appeared on the Stephan Livera Podcast to
  discuss nix-bitcoin.  nix-bitcoin is an experimental but promising project
  that aims to improve the security of installing Bitcoin and Lightning nodes. It

>   uses the functional Linux distribution NixOS where upgrading is equivalent to

Reviewer 2: s/ NixOS /, NixOS, /

  installing from scratch due to atomicity. Through minimalism, reproducibility,

>   compartmentalization, and defense in depth, nix-bitcoin aims to reduce the attack

Reviewer 2: It seems unclear what "defense in depth" actually means here. Perhaps omit and use "Through minimalismm, reproducibility, and compartmentalization," -- which is already a mouthful!

Reviewer: Yeah I'd be happy with omitting "defense in depth".

It is referring to putting up multiple lines of defense isolating by users and isolating on the network level with systemd. Whereas compartmentalization is referring to the individual processes being separated. As a summary though I think omitting it makes sense.

Reviewer 7: all good things come in three - ACK dropping `defense in depth`.

  surface of a Bitcoin and Lightning software stack---ensuring programs are unaware of
  other running processes unless they need to be. ([transcript][nixbitcoin
  transcript], [audio][nixbitcoin audio])

- **Taproot activation**: Eric Lombrozo, Luke Dashjr, and Aaron van Wirdum

>   discussed the alternative [taproot][topic taproot] activation proposals (see

Reviewer 2: ISTM "alternative" was intended in the sense of alternatives, i.e. options, but as used here it suggests alternatives to a default or chosen proposal. Suggest "the various taproot activation proposals".

Reviewer: Another good point. Yes agree on using "various" instead of "alternative"

  [Newsletter #107][news107 taproot activation]) and gave their opinions in a
  personal capacity on what lessons, if any, could be derived from activating the
  segwit soft fork.  Lombrozo and Dashjr both believe that the taproot activation
  process should not be drawn out and that all opposition, criticism, or review of
  the proposed code changes should be completed prior to starting any possible

>   activation process. As a result, they support a single phase [BIP8][] activation

Reviewer 2: s/single phase/single-phase/

  method with parameters still to be determined. Community feedback on activation
  proposals continues to be collected. ([transcript][activation transcript],
  [video][activation video])

- **Signet**: Kalle Alm and AJ Towns participated in a discussion on
  [signet][topic signet].  The design decisions of signet were explored as well
  as the mechanics of how testnet and regtest work. For more details, see the
  [_Default signet discussion_ news item](#default-signet-discussion).
  ([transcript][signet transcript], [video][signet video])

- **Bitcoin Core GUI meeting**: Anonymized participants, including designers and
  developers, met to discuss the Bitcoin Core graphical user interface, its
  current state, how it could be improved, and the constraints that
  any possible revamp would be subject to. For example, one change that has been

>   discussed in the past is moving from Qt Widgets to the Qt QML framework which

Reviewer 2: s/framework which/framework, which/

  is more flexible and easily customized. ([transcript][bitcoin core gui
  transcript]).

> - **Sydney meetup discussion** Ruben Somsen and Rusty Russell participated in a

Reviewer 2: s/**Sydney meetup discussion**/**Sydney meetup discussion**:/ (missing colon)

  discussion on statechains, upgrading LN channels, and [lnprototest][]. Somsen
  outlined how statechains (see [Newsletter #100][news100 statechains]) could
  potentially be used to swap out your Lightning channel counterparty or, in the
  case of DLCs (see [Newsletter #81][news81 dlc]), swap out a portion of your

>   position without closing the channel. With various possible Lightning channel

Reviewer 2: nit: "possible" is a bit of a tic in this section, in that it is used in three paragraphs in a row in a way that is a bit needless, e.g. it could be omitted

Reviewer: Also agree. I am trying to emphasize that none of these changes are inevitable but you're right it reads like a tic and if we are going to get rid of one "possible" better to take it from far future proposals like Lightning channel upgrades than proposals that are currently being discussed.

Reviewer 2: I'd remove all three, though imo this one is maybe the one to keep if you keep any of them :p

Reviewer 7: > I'd remove all three (ruthless editing ftw)

ACK.

Is there an `impossible Lightning channel`? I guess this is rather called a `broken Lightning channel`...

  upgrades on the horizon, participants speculated about which upgrades could use dynamic commitments
  (see [Newsletter #108][news108 dynamic commitments]) and which would require
  [splicing][topic splicing]. Finally, Russell explained how the Lightning
  protocol test suite lnprototest could be used to find bugs in existing
  implementations and assist with ensuring interoperability across
  implementations when building out new features.  ([transcript][sydney
  transcript]).

## Notable code and documentation changes

*Notable changes this week in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo],
[C-Lightning][c-lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LND][lnd repo],
[Rust-Lightning][rust-lightning repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo],
[Hardware Wallet Interface (HWI)][hwi], [Bitcoin Improvement Proposals
(BIPs)][bips repo], and [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo].*

> - [Bitcoin Core #19797][] strays from Satoshi's original vision™ by

Reviewer 7: lol - good one!

  removing an obsolete validity check for IPv6 addresses constructed by
  Bitcoin (Core) 0.2.8 and earlier.  Those early nodes had a bug that

>   would construct malformed addresses.

Reviewer 2: consider "build" here instead of "construct" to not use the same verb as in the preceding phrase

  This change should have no impact on the current P2P network, as
  affected versions are unable to communicate with current software due
  to the introduction of checksums for P2P messages in Bitcoin
  (Core) 0.2.9, which were later made mandatory.

- [Bitcoin Core #19731][] extends the `getpeerinfo` RPC output with two new
  fields: `last_block` and `last_transaction`. `last_block` is the time that
  the node most recently received a block from the peer which it had not seen
  before and which passed preliminary validity checks. `last_transaction` is the
  last time that the node received a transaction from the peer that it

>   accepted to its mempool. Both of these metrics are used when choosing peers

Reviewer 2: These sentences each have an ambiguous it ("it had not" and "that it accepted"). Suggestion:

`last_block` is the time that the node most recently received a block it had not seen before from the peer and which passed preliminary validity checks. `last_transaction` is the time that the node most recently received a transaction that it accepted into its mempool from the peer.

Author: Making a different change to hopefully make it clear that it has to be a novel block or transaction, rather than a block or tx the node already received from another peer.

Reviewer 7: s/`last_transaction` is the last time that the peer sent the local node a transaction that the node accepted to its mempool./`last_transaction` is the time that the peer sent the local node the most recent valid transaction./

is valid = accepted to mempool?

Author: Only valid transactions are accepted into the mempool, but a transaction can be valid but not accepted into the mempool (e.g., it pays too low of a feerate or there's a copy of the transaction already in the mempool).

Reviewer 2: It's the time of the most recent transaction that we received and accepted into our mempool from that peer. See `src/net_processing.cpp::L3022` in master, where `ProcessMessage()` handles TX net messages and this value is set with `pfrom.nLastTXTime = GetTime()`.

Reviewer 2: The conditional immediately preceding it checks that we have not already seen it and that it is accepted into our mempool:

```cpp
If (!AlreadyHave(CInv(MSG_WTX, wtxid), m_mempool) &&
    AcceptToMemoryPool(m_mempool, state, ptx, &lRemovedTxn, false /* bypass_limits */, 0 /* nAbsurdFee */)) {
```

  to disconnect, so it's useful for node operators to be able to access
  the values.

- [LND #4527][] adds a new `default-remote-max-htlcs` configuration
  option that allows the user to specify the default maximum number of
  unresolved HTLCs (payments) allowed in a channel.  This can minimize
  the amount of onchain fees the user will have to pay if they need to
  unilaterally close their channel, such as because of a fee ransom attack
  (see [Newsletter #103][news103 fee ransom]).

- [BIPs #982][] adds changes to [BIP340][] schnorr signatures (which
  also affect [BIP341][] taproot).  BIP340 was previously
  [changed][pk evenness update] to use two different tiebreakers for
  conveying the Y coordinate of points: squaredness for the R point

>   inside signatures and evenness for the public keys (see [Newsletter #111][news111 proposed tiebreaker]).  As

Reviewer 3: This link to Newsletter 111 doesn't cover the change to use two different tiebreakers. Did you mean to link to https://bitcoinops.org/en/newsletters/2020/02/05/#alternative-x-only-pubkey-tiebreaker ?

Author: Link was correct but its position in the paragraph was wrong.  Moved.

[Hardware Wallet Interface (HWI)][hwi], [Bitcoin Improvement Proposals
(BIPs)][bips repo], and [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo].*

- [Bitcoin Core #19797][] removes an obsolete validity check for IPv6 addresses

>   inadvertantly constructed due to a bug by Bitcoin Core v0.2.8 and earlier.

Reviewer 4: s/by/in (?)

Reviewer 6: Yep that makes much more sense.
